# **VBA Challenge Analysis**

## Overview of the Project
The world is gravitating towards green energy, and Steve's parents decided to
invest all their money in DAQO New Energy Corp (DQ) which makes silicone solar
wafers. The purpose of this project is to help Steve diversify his portfolio by
analyzing different green energy stock data in 2017 and 2018. This was done by
refactoring the starter code.

## Results
- ![Image of VBA_Challenge_2017]
(https://github.com/kushalishah/stock-analysis/blob/main/VBA_Challenge_2017.png)

- The image above shows us all the refactored green energy stocks in 2017. From
the data, we can see that 2017 was a great year for green energy companies except
for TERP as they had a negative return. Even though their total daily volume was
the lowest, Steve's parents were on the right track for investing in DQ as they
had they had a 199.4% return rate. The color coding was done using the following
code:
`For i = dataRowStart To dataRowEnd
        If Cells(i, 3) > 0 Then
            Cells(i, 3).Interior.Color = vbGreen
        Else
            Cells(i, 3).Interior.Color = vbRed
        End If`
The code explains that if the returns are greater than zero, then the cells will
populate green, if not then they will populate red.

- ![Image of VBA_Challenge_2018]
(https://github.com/kushalishah/stock-analysis/blob/main/VBA_Challenge_2018.png)

- The image above shows us all the refactored green energy stocks in 2018. From
the data, we can see that 2018 was not a great year for green energy companies
except for ENPH and RUN as they had a positive returns. DQ had the second lowest
total daily volume, yet they had the highest negative returns. Steve's parents
would lose their money if they heavily invested in green energy stocks in 2018.
In conclusion, I wanted to help Steve to be able to input the year he wants to
run the analysis for. To do that, I entered the value by assigning InputBox to a
variable followed by <What year would you like to run the analysis on?>. Here is
what the code looks like:
`yearValue = InputBox("What year would you like to run the analysis on?")`

## Summary
- Refactoring has several advantages and disadvantages. The main reason why we
refactored code for Steve was because we wanted to make sure the code was easy
for him to understand, useful to identify bugs and also help with faster
programming. However, refactoring code can take up a lot of time, especially if
you're on a budget.
- Using VBA Script can be useful for automating certain tasks by running macros,
it also allows us to write complicated scripts to perform complex analyses,
which we wouldn't be able to do with Excel alone, and we can learn the
fundamental building blocks of programming languages. However, VBA can be
dangerous as the macros can be hacked and destroy all your code, there is a
possibility that all time goes into debugging a specific code.
